---
layout: post
title: "Lessons from Internet of Things (IoT)"
date: 2019-09-20
time : "5 Mins"
quote : "don't be afraid of trying something new"
author : "Tharine Ramachandran" 
summary : "an article about my interest in IOT and lessons I had learn from it"
topic : "Technology"
tags: ["Programming", "Internet of things", "Technology"]
img : "iotlessons.jpg"
---
Internet of Things (IoT) has always been one of my interests since the second semester of my first year in polytechnic, and I had a great time learning it as my elective in my second year. Here, I'll share what is Internet of Things (IoT) and some lessons I had learned while studying it.
 
Internet of Things is defined as the interconnection via the Internet of computing devices embedded in everyday objects, enabling them to send and receive data. Examples of appliances that fall into the scope of Internet of Things include connected security systems, thermostats, cars, electronic appliances, lights in household and commercial environments, alarm clocks, speaker systems and vending machines. IoT helps us to control appliances automatically, that we ordinarily have to manually change. This helps us become more efficient, save our precious time during rush hours and ensures our safety. IoT also helps us to save money and enables us to lead a better quality of life.
 
Among the lessons I had learned from studying IoT is not to be afraid of trying something new. I have learned to try new methods and APIs in the process of delivering better service and designing better system architecture. I have also learned to communicate effectively with my teammates and conduct meetings more efficiently when working on projects together.
 
Finally, thank you for reading my first ever blog on this website. I hope you have a great day ahead and stay tuned for more content like this!

With Love, T
